.TH ISNSD 8 "11 May 2007"
.SH NAME
isnsd \- iSNS server daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B isnsd
.RB [ "\-f" ]
.RB [ "\-4" ]
.RB [ "\-6" ]
.RB [ "\-c \fIfilename" ]
.RB [ "\-d \fIdebug-facility" ]
.RB [ \--dump-db ]
.RB [ \--init ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Isnsd
implements the iSNS protocol as defined in RFC 4171.
iSNS is a discovery protocol for iSCSI and iFCP.
.SH OPTIONS
By default,
.B isnsd
will take most of its settings from the configuration
file
.BR /etc/isns/isnsd.conf ,
with the exception of the following options:
.TP
.BI \--config " filename\fR, " \-c " filename
This option overrides the default configuration file.
.TP
.BR \--foreground , \-f
By default,
.B isnsd
will put itself into the background. By specifying this option, you can
tell it to run in the foreground. Any error messages or debug output
will be printed to the console rather than being sent to syslog.
.TP
.BI \-4
tells
.B isnsd
to create an IPv4 socket only. Normally, it defaults
to IPv6 (which will accept both IPv4 and IPv6 connections).
.TP
.BI \-6
tells
.B isnsd
explicitly
to create an IPv6 socket only. Since it defaults
to IPv6 anyway, this is really a no-op.
.TP
.BI \--debug " facility\fR, " \-d " facility
enables debugging. Valid facilities are
.PP
.TS
tab(,),box,center;
lb|lr.
socket,network send/receive
auth,authentication and security related information
message,iSNS protocol layer
state,database state
scn,SCN (state change notification) messages
esi,ESI (entity status inquiry) messages
all,all of the above
.TE
.PP
.TP
.B \--dump-db
This is a helper function that will read the database from the
file system, and display it in human readable form. When using
this option,
.B isnsd
will not open any sockets, and terminate immediately after display
the database.
.IP
This option is intended to be used by the administrator when suspecting
that the database contains bad/inconsistent information.
.TP
.B \--init
This option will create the server's authentication key, and
the required DSA parameters. The private key is stored in the
file specified by the
.B AuthKey
option (usually
.BR /etc/isns/auth_key ).
The public portion of the key is written to same directory,
with the suffix
.B .pub
appended to the key file name.
.SH SEE ALSO
RFC 4171,
.BR isnsadm (8),
.BR isnsdd (8),
.BR isns_config (5).
.SH AUTHORS
Olaf Kirch <olaf.kirch@oracle.com>
