.TH ISNSDD 8 "11 May 2007"
.SH NAME
isnsdd \- iSNS discovery daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B isnsdd
.RB [ "\-f" ]
.RB [ "\-c \fIfilename" ]
.RB [ "\-d \fIdebug-facility" ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Isnsdd
is a client side daemon for iSNS. It registers storage
nodes and portals with the iSNS service, and refreshes
these registrations in a timely manner.
.PP
The daemon also registers itself to receive SCN notifications,
and processes these. It can be configured to invoke an
external helper application for each status notification
received. The path name of the helper application can be
specified via the
.B SCNCallout
option in the configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
By default,
.B isnsd
will take most of its settings from the configuration
file
.BR /etc/isns/isnsdd.conf ,
with the addition of the following command line options:
.TP
.BI \--config " filename\fR, " \-c " filename
This option overrides the default configuration file.
.TP
.BR \--foreground , \-f
By default,
.B isnsd
will put itself into the background. By specifying this option, you can
tell it to run in the foreground. Any error messages or debug output
will be printed to the console rather than being sent to syslog.
.TP
.BI \--role " role
This tells the discovery daemon in which capacity is should register itself
with the iSNS server.
.I Role
can be either
.BR initiator ", or " control .
The default is to register as an initiator.
.IP
Registering target nodes needs to use a different mechanism, as
the iSCSI target server needs to inform the discovery daemon
about each exported target separately. This is not implemented
yet.
.TP
.BI \--debug " facility\fR, " \-d " facility
enables debugging. Valid facilities are
.PP
.TS
tab(,),box,center;
lb|lr.
socket,network send/receive
auth,authentication and security related information
message,iSNS protocol layer
state,database state
scn,SCN (state change notification) messages
esi,ESI (entity status inquiry) messages
all,all of the above
.TE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
RFC 4171,
.BR isnsd (8),
.BR isnsadm (8),
.BR isns_config (5).
.SH AUTHORS
Olaf Kirch <olaf.kirch@oracle.com>
