.TH ISCSID 8 "July 2005" "" "Linux Administrator's Manual"
.SH NAME
iscsid \- Open-iSCSI daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI iscsid
[OPTION]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B iscsid
implements the control path of iSCSI protocol, plus some management
facilities. For example, the daemon could be configured to automatically 
re-start discovery at startup, based on the contents of persistent 
iSCSI database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI [-c|--config=]\fIconfig\-file\fP
Read configuration from \fIconfig\-file\fR rather than the default
\fI/etc/iscsi/iscsid.conf\fR file.
.TP
.BI [-i|--initiatorname=]\fIiname\-file\fP
Read initiator name from \fIiname\-file\fR rather than the default
\fI/etc/iscsi/initiatorname.iscsi\fR file.
.TP
.BI [-f|--foreground]
run
.B iscsid
in the foreground.
.TP
.BI [-d|--debug=]\fIdebug_level\fP
print debugging information. Valid values for debug_level are 0 to 8.
.TP
.BI [-u|--uid=]\fIuid\fP
run under user ID \fIuid\fR (default is the current user ID)
.TP
.BI [-g|--gid=]\fIgid\fP
run under user group ID \fIgid\fR (default is the current user group ID).
.TP
.BI [-n|--no-pid-file]\fP
do not write a process ID file.
.TP
.BI [-p|--pid=]\fIpid\-file\fP
write process ID to \fIpid\-file\fR rather than the default
\fI/var/run/iscsid.pid\fR
.TP
.BI [-h|--help]
display this help and exit
.TP
.BI [-v|--version]
display version and exit.

.SH FILES
.TP
/etc/iscsi/iscsid.conf
The configuration file read by
.B iscsid
and
.B iscsiadm
on startup.
.TP
/etc/iscsi/initiatorname.iscsi
The file containing the iSCSI initiatorname
and initiatoralias read by
.B iscsid
and
.B iscsiadm
on startup.
.TP
/etc/iscsi/nodes
Open-iSCSI persistent configuration database

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR iscsiadm (8)

.SH AUTHORS
Open-iSCSI project <http://www.open-iscsi.org/>
.br
Alex Aizman <itn780@yahoo.com>
.br
Dmitry Yusupov <dmitry_yus@yahoo.com>
