.\" Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Broadcom Corporation
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, QLogic Corporation
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" bnx2.4,v 0.7.8.1b
.\"
.TH iscsiuio 8 "12/10/2013" "QLogic Corporation"
.\"
.\" NAME part
.\"
.SH NAME
iscsiuio \- iSCSI UserSpace I/O driver
.\"
.\" SYNOPSIS part
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iscsiuio
.RB [ -d -f -v ]
.PP
.\"
.\" DESCRIPTION part
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
iscsiuio is the UserSpace I/O driver for the QLogic NetXtreme II
BCM5706/5708/5709 series PCI/PCI-X Gigabit Ethernet Network Interface Card
(NIC) and for the QLogic NetXtreme II BCM57710/57711/57712/57800/57810/57840
series PCI-E 10 Gigabit Ethernet Network Interface Card.
The driver has been tested on 2.6.28 kernels and above.
.PP
Refer to the README.TXT from the driver package on how to
compile and install the driver.
.PP
Refer to various Linux documentations
on how to configure network protocol and address.
.\"
.\" DRIVER DEPENDENCIES part
.\"
.SH DRIVER DEPENDENCIES

.\"
.\" PARAMETER part
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
There are very few parameters when running this application.
.TP
.BI -d|--debug <debug level>
This is to enable debug mode where debug messages will be sent to stdout
The following debug modes are supported
.P
.RS
DEBUG         4 - Print all messages
.P
INFO          3 - Print messages needed to follow the uIP code (default)
.P
WARN          2 - Print warning messages
.P
ERROR         1 - Only print critical errors
.RE
.PP
.TP
.TP
.BI -f|--foreground
This is to enable foreground mode so that this application doesn't get sent
into the background.
.PP
.TP
.BI -v|--version
This is to print the version.
.PP
.TP
.BI -p|--pid <pidfile>
Use pidfile (default  /run/iscsiuio.pid )
.PP
.TP
.BI -h|--help
Display this help and exit.


.\"
.\" AUTHOR part
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Li \- benli@broadcom.com
.P
Eddie Wai \- eddie.wai@broadcom.com
.SH Maintained by
QLogic-Storage-Upstream@qlogic.com
